<a name="topage"></a>

# s03.04.01_Dom_query

### dom & node

```
In the previous lecture we have learned what is `promise` and what is `mode` are.

let us try to understand how to Traverse the dom and  how to retrieve the node from the dom.
Dom is actually the main structure of your web page and node are the little pieces of webpage that you want.
There are two ways you can retrieve the node
first one is by looking up  the `ID` of the node and
second one is by looking at the `CSS select` 
`ID look up` is fast it is used in cases where you need to look at a single node and the note that you're
trying to look up needs an
`ID attribute` for it to be avaiable on lookup. 
The syntax is straight forward you just say by `ID` and you get the `id` of the node that you're looking for
and Dojo will retrieve the node that you're looking for.
CSS selector on the other hand is used in cases where you need to retrieve multiple node from the web page.
It's relatively slower than ID lookup however you don't have to provide the ID attribute for the node that you are looking.
there are multiple other ways you can point to the node on the web page by carraysing the elements on the web page and
you can look up the node that you want.
before you try to retrieve any node on the web page you need to make sure that the page is loaded
and the node are available for you to start looking.
the reason I'm saying this is if you're trying to look up a node while the page is loading
there is a good chance that you may not be able to find the node.
it's not because the node is not available on the page it may be just because it's not loaded yet.
so how do you make sure that the dom is ready and all the notes are loaded before you starte retriving.
dojo provides that by a way of using function called `ready`.
there are two different kinds of syntaxes to write the `ready` function 
The first one is the `Legacy syntax` 
`Legacy syntax` is the syntax that was will used in Dojo version 1.7.

it is still available in the latest versions of dojo and the way the syntax works is after
you write the dojo library in a script file you write `dojo.readyfunction`
and you include your code for traversal or look up logic inside disclosure already function
what it does is it waits until the complete Dom is loaded and then it starts executing the statements inside the
`dojo.ready` function that way you can be insured that your node that you're trying to look up
will be available for you on the web page and the page is completely loaded by the time you execute this function.

The second one is AMD syntax are modern syntax.
AMD stands for asynchronous module definition. 
AMD works is it loads `modules` that it needs on demand so it will only load the `modules` that you ask for.
The way the library size on the pages is kept the minimum.
The way `AMD loader` works is through `required` and `Define` functions.
`require` function is used in cases where you want to `download modules` from the dojo toolkit for your web page. 
-!- Remember
the complete Dozer toolkit is modularized so which are module you want to download
you just include that module inside the required and the dojo AMD loader will automatically download the module for you.

   dojo.ready(function(){});

   require([module1, moule2,...) functionrequire(module1, moule2,...) {});
   require(["dojo/domready!"]), function(){});
When I say module there's nothing but a `Javascript` file so whenever you're saying `require` let's say `dom ready`
module like you can see here `dojo/domready`

   require(["dojo/domready!"]), function(){});

What it is actually doing is it's  downloading.

The dojo package and inside Dojo I'm going into the dojo folder and I'm looking for `dojo/domready`
All it does is when you say `require(["dojo/domready!"])` it's going to download the `dojo/domready` JS and all the library functions that are available inside the Dom ready will be available on the web page for you to use.
The syntax for `require` is the first argument is array of modules that are spareted by commaWWE MB works is loads `modules` that it needs on

inside the Dom ready will be available on the webpage for you to use.
The Syntax for `require` is the first argument is an array of modules that are separated by a comma [,] and
the second argument is a function which is a call back function and it will have references to the modules that we included in the first argument.
It is necessary for you to understand the syntax.
`AMD` syntax and `Define` syntax is almost similar to that and as the name suggests it allows you to Define your own modules
like you whatever modules that you want to write you can write it in Javascript file and you can Define that as a new module
and it will be available for you to use in other pages of your application
so let's start taking a look at some examples that way you'll understand it much better


----

<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
